Ben's crew is getting ready for the
crescendo of it's already very
successful campaign they have the
national championships in the race
against Harvard left and they prepare
here at their facility at Gail's ferry
athletes are living here you just walk
around these buildings you can't escape
your legacy you can't escape the you
know the history in fact you become
immersed in it history dating back to
the 1800s
even before former Yale rower Payne
Whitney built the home in 1905 this is
where Yale or as Lynn came to prepare
for big races a for building Yale own
compound for the athletes coaches and
equipment it becomes a very very
important point actually practically
speaking to be able to live here eat
here train here and have all the all the
pieces within you know a three minute
walk of your bed the facility really
really provides a place where the team
can come together and we can build those
bonds that mean more than just simply
simply the miles that you spend chugging
up and down the river together with all
their schoolwork behind them the
athletes can focus on nothing but rowing
they spent a few weeks here before
heading out to California for the
national championship it's really the
only time in the season of where the
athletes can put all their attention to
the development of speed developing
speed is exactly what Yale is done and
it's ascent to an elite program Yale
goes through first how about these
accomplishments gilt heavyweight eight
has now won three consecutive eastern
sprint championships the first time
that's ever happened three in a row
the Bulldogs also captured the row Cup
given to the team with the best overall
performance at the springs the first
time yells done that since 1979
if looking to the Yale and these final
few strokes what a finish from these
crews I'm saying Yale / Harvard and all
the winning coincides with the arrival
of Coach D blast their burger
and Orton coming of the way to the
shoulder important warnings about when I
was a freshman I raced the JV event at
IRA and I remember we raced a repechage
against Harvard and Columbia and were
easily picked to finish last no one
expected us to do very well that's what
Yale did but we won that rest Shosh
didn't do so well in the final but I
that moment sticks out to me as no one
would pick us to finish last
in a repechage to that nope in fact Yale
is now one of the favorites to win the
national championship for the seniors on
this team a national championship would
complete their mission a mission not
long ago many thought was out of the
question
yep no you work you planned you make
your significant emotional and time
commitment and it's great to see it same
win the race you know you show up at
Yale like four years ago 2013 for me and
you notice that you know a lot of the
leadership on the team that other guys
you know I've never seen success they're
like of you know like very used to their
structures and then this new coach comes
around and that kind of brings a new
system and and there's just a lot of
trust you have to bring and just say
okay like let's roll with this I wanted
to be part of something exciting I
wanted to be part of something that no
one had done before and people said that
it couldn't be done with Yale and and so
we what we have done was impossible
obviously we're definitely not finished
here he's not finished here it's good to
have had the success that we have had
winning three sprints running head of
the Charles winning Henley but we came
here to try and win a national
championship we haven't managed that yet
so in my eyes we haven't done anything
yet
after the national championships the
athletes will return to this unique
facility at Gail's ferry to prepare for
their final race this inter collegiate
sporting event in the country the race
against Harvard race every year right on
this the Thames River maybe after that
the athletes can reflect on exactly what
they've accomplished